Hello everyone and welcome to priority queues with binary heaps lecture.
So we're going to switch gears a bit and talk about priority queues with binary heaps and later on we'll
see how that relates to trees.
So we discuss stacks queues and decks and now we're going to talk about an important variation of a
cube called a priority.
Q So a priority queue X..
Q In that you can dequeue or remove an item by removing it from the front.
However in a priority queue the logical order of the items inside the queue are determined by their
priority.
So the highest priority items are at the front of the queue and the lowest priority items are actually
at the back.
And then when you and Q are in queue basically meaning adding an item to your queue into that priority
queue the new item may actually move all the way to the front depending on its priority.
So the classic way to implement implement a priority queue is using a data structure called a binary
heap and the binary heap is going to allow us to both on queue and the queue and remove items from this
priority queue.
On order of log n so the binary heap has two common variations.
The min heap in which the smallest key is always at the front and the max heap in which the largest
key value is always at the front.
In this section in the next lecture we're going to implement the min heat.
OK so let's go ahead and get ready for the next lecture where we're going to discuss the implementation
.
Show some code throughout a presentation and then you'll have a Jupiter note book as a resource.
So the next Look she likes to see a presentation and you'll be able to refer to the code Notebook.
We're not actually going to live code it because there's a bit of an explanation to go through as far
as what the binary heap is actually doing.
All right.
Thanks and I'll see at the next lecture.